MRI of the Wrist

Bones and Joints: Mild juxta-articular bone edema at the CMC joints III. No bone marrow edema in the distal forearm, carpal, or proximal metacarpal regions. No evidence of erosive changes. Particularly, the PSU is intact. Small geode (differential diagnosis: intraosseous ganglion cyst) in the distal scaphoid. Mild degeneration in the thumb saddle joint with small osteophyte formations and slight radial joint displacement. Neutral ulnar variance. Harmonious carpal alignment. Joint effusion in the radiocarpal and pisotriquetral joints with marked, contrast-enhancing synovitis. Also, pronounced synovitis in the DRUJ and mild in the midcarpal joint. No joint effusion in the metacarpophalangeal joints.

Intrinsic/Extrinsic Ligaments: Intact SL/LT ligament. Unremarkable radiocarpal/ulnocarpal ligaments. Intact dorsal intercarpal ligament.

TFCC: The triangular fibrocartilage shows slight signal elevation on the carpal side without evidence of perforating damage. Normal radial attachment, the styloid and foveal attachments are somewhat swollen (differential diagnosis: reactive within inflammatory changes), but appear intact as far as can be assessed. At the level of the ulnocarpal joint space, there is focal signal elevation and mild contrast enhancement of the ECU tendon with significantly increased peritendinous fluid here. Also, mild contrast uptake of the tendon and peritendinous area with at most faint adjacent contrast enhancement. No dislocation of the ECU tendon. The subsheath appears intact as far as can be delineated.

Remaining Tendons/Muscles/Nerves: Mild peritendinous fluid or contrast uptake around the tendons in the 2nd extensor compartment and briefly around the flexor carpi radialis tendon. Otherwise, the remaining extensor/flexor tendons are unremarkable with no pathological contrast enhancement. No evidence of caliber change of the median nerve at the entrance to the carpal tunnel. No peri-/intraneural contrast enhancement. Unremarkable depiction of the ulnar nerve in the Guyon’s canal. No evidence of fatty atrophy of the included musculature.

Assessment:
Joint effusions and marked synovitis in the DRUJ, radiocarpal, ulnocarpal, and midcarpal joints. Edematous and contrast-enhancing TFCC with tendinitis or peritendinitis of the ECU tendon. No detectable erosions, intact PSU. No effusion or synovitis of the CMC joints.