CT Chest

The thyroid gland is normal in size and homogeneous. The upper thoracic aperture, thoracic soft tissue mantle, and the supra- and infraclavicular regions appear unremarkable. There are no pathologically enlarged axillary lymph nodes on either side. Slightly prominent but normally sized mediastinal lymph nodes, with a maximum transverse diameter of about 8 mm (e.g., SE 2; Ima 65). No enlarged hilar lymph nodes on either side. The heart is normal in size with no pericardial effusion. No significant aortic or coronary sclerosis. The mediastinum is midline. The tracheobronchial tree is clear. No pleural effusion on either side. There is prominent streaky atelectasis in the dorsobasal segment of the right lower lobe, with narrower atelectatic changes dorsobasally on the left. No evidence of infiltrates. No ground-glass opacities. Mild pleural thickening at the apices on both sides. A known solid nodule, 8 mm in size, is present peribronchovascular centrally in the apical segment of the right upper lobe from previous examination. Another solid nodule in the superior segment of the left lower lobe measures up to 6 mm. Two adjacent calcified granulomas further superior in the superior segment of the left lower lobe measure up to 8 mm. Otherwise, no evidence of intrapulmonary nodules. Both adrenal glands are slender. In the splenic bed, there are two small, spleen-like parenchymal changes with contrast enhancement, oval to nodular in configuration, differential diagnosis includes status post-splenectomy with splenosis. No indication of any acute or significant findings in the upper abdomen.

The alignment of the visualized axial skeleton is normal. Mild spondylosis of the lower thoracic spine. Mild degenerative changes. No acute or suspicious osseous lesions.

Impression

Detection of two solid nodules measuring 6 and 8 mm on both sides, follow-up recommended in 3 to 6 months according to Fleischner criteria. Atelectatic changes in the dorsobasal segments of both lower lobes, differential diagnosis post-infectious. No acute infectious focus. No lymphadenopathy.