CT Abdomen without contrast

Findings

The kidneys are approximately symmetrical in size and configuration. The right renal pelvis and ureter are slender. There is a slight dilation of the left renal pelvis with a calculus in the left renal pelvis, approximately at the level of the parenchymal scars (about 6 x 11 x 8 mm, measured >1200 HU). Additionally, there are several small, partially punctate calculi (differential diagnosis includes papillary tip calcification) predominantly in the lower third of the left renal pelvis. No ureteral calculus is present. Phleboliths are noted in the pelvis, one in close proximity to the distal left ureter. The bladder is minimally filled with a slightly accentuated wall contour, without calcified calculus. The prostate has a transverse diameter of up to 4.3 cm. Pre-existing asymmetrical seminal vesicles favoring the right side.

Otherwise, as far as captured and with the given non-contrast technique:
The basal lungs show no pleural effusion or infiltrate. A pre-existing subpleural bulla in the left lower lobe is partially captured. No pericardial effusion is noted.
The liver texture is homogeneous. The common bile duct is slender. The gallbladder is unremarkable. The pancreas shows no visible ductal dilation, surrounding reaction, or focal lesion. No adrenal masses are present. The spleen texture is homogeneous.
No ascites. No pneumoperitoneum. No suspiciously enlarged lymph nodes.
The gastrointestinal tract shows no segmental distension or surrounding reaction. Mild arteriosclerosis. The abdominal wall is approximately symmetrical.
The alignment of the captured vertebral bodies is intact. Schmorl's nodes are present on the endplate of L2. There is an elongated bone island in L3. Moderate degenerative changes are noted. No suspicious osseous lesion.

Impression

Slightly dilated left renal pelvis, possible obstruction grade I-II.
Left nephrolithiasis with a larger calculus in the renal pelvis, approximately at the level of the parenchymal lips (differential diagnosis possibly intermittently obstructing?). Additionally, multiple smaller, punctate calculi, papillary tip calcification in the lower third of the left renal pelvis.
No nephrolithiasis on the right side, no ureteral calculus on either side, no bladder calculus.