Clinic, Question, Justifying Indication:Patient with suspected bronchial carcinoma in the right lower lobe as seen on the X-ray image. Question regarding a malignant lesion and lymph node metastases.The justifying indication for the use of ionizing radiation was provided by the responsible, qualified physician.
Information and Consent:After obtaining a risk history, the patient was verbally and in writing informed about the contrast agent application, the examination procedure, and potential risks (also refer to the consent form). Written consent was obtained from the patient.
Examination Technique:Digital overview radiographs. Intravenous administration of 100 ml Imeron 400 and acquisition of the thorax/abdomen/pelvis in the venous contrast phase. Multiplanar reconstructions. Dose-length product 760.90 mGy*cm.
Findings:A conventional thoracic image from the same day is available for comparison.
Thorax:The heart is not enlarged. No pericardial effusion. No evidence of a central pulmonary artery embolism, as far as can be assessed in the venous contrast phase. Multiple roundly configured and centrally hypodense lymph nodes are present in the mediastinum, exemplarily on the right side pretracheal with a size of 16 x 15 mm. Another enlarged and roundly configured lymph node is found retrocrurally with a size of 9 x 9 mm and inhomogeneous contrast. No pathologically enlarged or configured lymph nodes axillary or left pulmonary hilar. Extensive hypodense space-occupying lesion on the right side centrally, involving the right hilum with a size of 84 x 56 mm, and with immediate contact to the right main bronchus and the paravertebral pleura. Additionally, several nodular lesions are seen in both lungs, exemplarily in the right upper lobe subpleural with a size of 5 mm, in the anterior left upper lobe with a size of 6 mm, or in the left lower lobe with a size of 11 mm. No pneumonic infiltrates. No pleural effusion or pneumothorax.
Abdomen:The liver is largely smooth-edged, homogeneously contrasted, and without evidence of focal lesions. The gallbladder is thin-walled, fluid-filled, and without radiodense stones. No dilation of the intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile ducts. The pancreas is lobulated as typical for the organ, with no dilation of the pancreatic duct. The spleen is homogeneously contrasted and not enlarged. Both adrenal glands are slightly plump. The kidneys are orthotopically positioned with numerous parapelvic cysts on both sides. No dilation of the urinary tract. The urinary bladder is fluid-filled and without focal wall thickening. Fat-filled inguinal hernias on both sides. No pathologically distended small or large bowel loops. Sigmoid diverticulosis. No free air or fluid. A single prominent lymph node paraaortal with a short-axis diameter of 9 mm and irregular contour. Otherwise, no pathologically enlarged or configured mesenteric, retroperitoneal, iliac, or inguinal lymph nodes. Moderate atherosclerotic wall changes in the abdominal aorta and iliac arteries.
Skeletal System:No malignant-appearing osseous lesions. Moderate degenerative changes in the spine with multisegmental bridging osteophyte formation. Mild ankylosis of both sacroiliac joints. No fresh fractures.
Conclusion:Imaging shows a centrally located lung carcinoma of the right lower lobe, measuring up to 84 mm, with infiltration of the mediastinum and possibly the pleura.Multiple mediastinal lymph node metastases and one retrocrural lymph node metastasis. Right pulmonary hilar lymph node metastases may also be present but are difficult to distinguish from the presumed primary tumor.There is a high suspicion of disseminated small pulmonary metastases (approximately 25 in number).One retroperitoneal paraaortal lymph node is pathologically configured but is not considered a lymph node metastasis.
Incidental Findings:Inguinal hernias on both sides.