Clinic, Question, Justifying Indication:Patient with hepatic metastases from colon cancer. Status post left hemicolectomy. Regression of liver metastases? Pulmonary metastases?The justifying indication for the use of ionizing radiation was provided by the responsible, qualified physician.
Information and Consent:After obtaining a risk history, the patient was verbally and in writing informed about the contrast agent application, the examination procedure, and potential risks (also refer to the consent form). Written consent was obtained from the patient.
Examination Technique:Digital overview radiographs. Intravenous administration of 100 ml Imeron 400 and acquisition of the thorax/abdomen/pelvis in the venous contrast phase. Multiplanar reconstructions. Dose-length product 720.79 mGy*cm.
Findings:Several previous examinations are available for comparison, most recently a CT of the abdomen/pelvis from 9.9.2021
Thorax:Heart not enlarged. No pericardial effusion. No evidence of pulmonary artery embolism as far as can be assessed in the venous contrast phase. No pathologically enlarged or abnormally configured mediastinal, hilar, or axillary lymph nodes. A few calcified granulomas, e.g., 2 mm attached to the pleura in the right middle lobe or 3 mm attached to the pleura in the left upper lobe. No pulmonary masses suspected of malignancy, no pneumonic infiltrates. No pleural effusion or pneumothorax. Port system in the right pectoral region with the tip in the superior vena cava.
Abdomen:Liver margins largely smooth and homogeneously contrasted. The known liver metastases are currently only faintly delineated on CT, for example, subcapsularly at the segment border IVa/VIII, measuring 5 mm. Gallbladder with thin walls, filled with sludge, and without radiopaque calculi. No dilation of the intra- or extrahepatic bile ducts. Pancreas typically lobulated, no obstruction of the pancreatic duct. Spleen homogeneously contrasted and not enlarged. Accessory spleen measuring 6 mm medially. Adrenal glands are slim on both sides. Kidneys in orthotopic positions with symmetrical contrast enhancement. Small calculus in the middle calyx group of the right kidney. No obstruction of the urinary tracts. Bladder fluid-filled and without focal wall thickening. Status post left hemicolectomy with unremarkable anastomosis in the small pelvis. No pathologically distended small or large bowel loops. No free air or fluid. No pathologically enlarged or abnormally configured mesenteric, retroperitoneal, iliac, or inguinal lymph nodes. Continuous contrast enhancement of the major abdominal vessels.
Skeletal System:No osseous lesions suspected of malignancy. Moderate degenerative changes in the spine with multisegmental formation of osteophytes. No recent fractures. Mild ankylosis of the right sacroiliac joint.
Conclusion:CT morphology shows that the known liver metastases are now only faintly delineated.No lymph node metastases.
No new distant metastases.