Clinic, Question, Justifying Indication:Patient with a sonographically diagnosed abdominal aortic aneurysm. Imaging requested as part of surgical planning.The justifying indication for the use of ionizing radiation was provided by the responsible, qualified physician.
Information and Consent:After obtaining a risk history, the patient was verbally and in writing informed about the contrast agent application, the examination procedure, and potential risks (also refer to the consent form). Written consent was obtained from the patient.
Examination Technique:Digital overview radiographs. Intravenous application of 100 ml Imeron 400 and acquisition of the thorax/abdomen/pelvis in the arterial contrast phase. Multiplanar reconstructions. Dose-length product 980.59 mGy*cm.
Findings:No relevant previous examinations are available for comparison.
Vascular System:Marginally thrombotic aneurysm of the infrarenal aorta with a maximum diameter of 50 mm. Continuous contrast of the supraaortic vessels. Mild ostial stenosis of the celiac trunk. Continuous contrast of the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries as well as the renal arteries. The inferior mesenteric artery originates immediately above the aneurysm. Moderate atherosclerotic wall changes of the aorta and iliac arteries with hard and soft plaque deposits, without evidence of high-grade stenosis.
Thorax:Heart not enlarged. No pericardial effusion. No evidence of pulmonary embolism up to the segmental level. No pathologically enlarged or configured hilar or axillary lymph nodes. Trachea and large bronchi clear. Calcified granuloma measuring 2 mm in the peripheral right upper lobe. No suspicious pulmonary masses indicative of malignancy, no pneumonic infiltrates. Mild pleural calcifications on both sides. No pleural effusion or pneumothorax.
Abdomen:Liver with a hyperdense subcapsular lesion in the arterial contrast phase in segment II measuring 15 x 13 mm DD hemangioma. Gallbladder thin-walled, fluid-filled, and without radiopaque stones. No dilation of intra- or extrahepatic bile ducts. Pancreas with typical lobulated appearance, no dilatation of the pancreatic duct. Spleen not enlarged. Adrenal glands slightly plump bilaterally. Kidneys in orthotopic position with symmetrical contrast enhancement. No dilation of the urinary tract. Bladder fluid-filled without focal wall thickening. No pathologically distended small or large bowel loops. Few sigmoid diverticula. No free intra-abdominal air or fluid. No pathologically enlarged or configured mesenteric, retroperitoneal, iliac, or inguinal lymph nodes.
Skeletal System:No suspicious osseous lesions indicative of malignancy. Moderate degenerative changes in the spine with multisegmental osteochondrosis intervertebralis. No fresh fractures. Arthrosis of the acromioclavicular (AC) joints and hip joints bilaterally.
Conclusion:Marginally thrombotic aneurysm of the infrarenal aorta measuring up to 50 mm. Continuous contrast enhancement of the visceral arteries.