Clinic, Question, Justifying Indication:Patient with fluctuating dizziness. Ischemia? Hemorrhage? Vascular occlusion?The justifying indication for the use of ionizing radiation was provided by the responsible, qualified physician.
Examination Technique:Digital overview radiographs. Native acquisition of the neurocranium. Intravenous administration of 100 ml Xenetix 350 and CT angiography of the head/neck using multiphase technique. Multiplanar reconstructions. Dose-length product 1042.26 mGy*cm.
Information and Consent:After obtaining a risk history, the patient was verbally and in writing informed about the contrast agent application, the examination procedure, and potential risks (also refer to the consent form). Written consent was obtained from the patient.
Finding:There are several previous examinations for comparison, most recently an MRI of the neurocranium from 12.12.2024 and a CT of the neurocranium from 11.11.2024.
Cranial CT:No intracranial hemorrhage. No early signs of ischemia. No demarcated territorial infarct.Symmetrical internal and external cerebrospinal fluid spaces. No cerebrospinal fluid obstruction. No midline shift. No herniation.No fracture of the skull cap.
CT Angiography:High-grade stenosis at the origin of the right internal carotid artery, followed by normal contrast enhancement. Beyond that, no evidence of high-grade stenosis of the cervical vessels.Caliber-reduced left vertebral artery.Normal contrast enhancement of the intracranial vessels without evidence of vascular occlusion or high-grade stenosis.No cerebral vein or sinus thrombosis.
Midface and Cervical Spine:No fracture.Moderate degenerative changes of the cervical spine.Mild mucosal swelling in both maxillary sinuses and some ethmoidal cells. Mastoid cells are well aerated.6 mm hypodense lesion in the left thyroid lobe.Mild pulmonary venous congestion.
Conclusion:No intracranial hemorrhage. No fresh or demarcated infarct area.High-grade stenosis of the right internal carotid artery. No evidence of intracranial vascular 